hello readers today i'll make a video
about summaries
a summary retells the main ideas of a
passage but in a much shorter version
cool great done you can learn anything
dave it out
sorry i made a goof see i summarized
what was going to happen in this video
right i took the information i was going
to tell you and i shortened it this is
what the skill of summarizing is i just
applied it to this video instead of to a
story
when you summarize you have to ask
yourself what are the most important
facts what are the most important
details you're a reporter a stringer a
journal your job is to get in get the
facts and get out
it's the news in brief just the facts
ma'am
take the three little pigs for instance
i'll summarize it now
three little pigs live in houses that
they built one used straw one used wood
and the third pig who worked hardest of
all built a brick house along comes a
big bad wolf pictured here with a big
bad top hat and a big bad house wrecking
hammer i don't know
and he successfully knocks down the
first two houses in order to eat the
pigs inside
but they escape to the brick house which
the wolf is unable to knock down
that's the important part of the story
and i bet i could even cut that down a
little bit but here's what's there all
the important characters all their major
decisions and the outcome of the story
we have the beginning the middle and the
end
now let me show you what too little
information looks like there were three
pigs they built houses a big bad wolf
tried to get them
not enough that's not enough information
it doesn't tell us whether or not the
wolf succeeded or the important
differences between the three pig houses
not enough as far as facts go
you know it's got it's got to be
specific
and look it's possible to go in the
opposite direction too too many
irrelevant facts
so there were three pigs one's name was
horus another's name was pansy and the
third's name was flustafer they had all
been friends since middle school and
when the market was in a good place all
three of them decided to go in for plots
of land right next to each other
that right like that's that's too much
in a summary i don't need the whole
story if it were the whole story it
wouldn't be a summary it'd just be the
whole story all over again
keep it simple we need the events of the
story in the order they happened in we
need the characters and we need the
problems they face and for a summary
that's kind of it
you can learn anything
david out
for real this time bye